# g.princals

It´s R-script to improve aesthetic plotting of princals function of Gifi package

## Contents
- [Proposal](#proposal)
- [Instruction](#instruction)
- [R code](#r-code)
- [Reference](#reference)

## Proposal 

g.princals is a function designed to address aesthetic issues encountered when using plot.princals of "Gifi"" package[(3)](#reference), which exclusively generates plots using a "graphic" package. g.princals leverages the power of the ggplot2 package, renowned for producing high-quality visuals.

In this part, it was showed a r-script and plots which create to g.princals function.

## Instruction

"g.princals" replaces the default "plot" function in R, generating customized graphics for customer items. 

  - x: call a object was generated by princals(dataset).
  - plot.dim:  Vector with dimensions to be plotted with the default condition being set to c(1, 2).
  - var.subset: with the default condition being set to"all"
  - max.plot.array: with the default condition being set to 2.
  - stepvec: Vector whether step function should be plotted (see details in princals/R Documentation).with the default condition being set to NA.
  - col.lines: colour of line. Default condition being set to "black".
  - main: Title of picture. Default condition being set to name of princals object.
  - show: Options to choose are TRUE,FALSE,T,F,1 and 0. Default condition being set to "1" mean it shows plots.
  - save: Options to choose are TRUE,FALSE,T,F,1 and 0. Default condition being set to "1" mean it saves plots.
  - name: label or name of princals object. Default condition being set to name of princals object. 
  - units: unit of width/height in 'mm'
  - width: Default condition being set to 250mm.
  - height: Default condition being set to 250mm. 
  - res: resolution of pictures. Default condition being set to 300 pixels.
  
## R code
```markdown
###############################################################################
setwd("~/file")
source("https://github.com/jasb3110/g.princals/blob/f286b26f79da57600c3e7f207a6f653f24028a76/g.princals.R)
ABC6 <- ABC[,6:11]
## ordinal PCA
fitord <- princals(ABC6,ndim = 6)  
g.princals(fitord,save=0,show=1)#show plots
g.princals(fitord,save=1,show=0)#save plots in PNG format
################################################################################
```

## Reference

https://rdrr.io/rforge/Gifi/src/R/plot.princals.R